Nothing is more expensive than bad information.
Know the source.
One Radio Network dot com.
Okay, sorry for our little bit late start.
We generally start at 1030 central on the third Monday, whatever it is, on One Radio
Network dot com with a very popular guest, Dr. Ray Peat.
He has a PhD and Dr. Peat has been at this idea of looking at human nutrition, healing,
how the body works for a very, very long time.
A PhD from years ago.
He's a nutritional counselor.
He got his PhD from University of Oregon and he specialized in physiology.
Started his work in hormones in '68, way back when I was in the military and I remember
kind of a wild year where, if I recall, it was Bobby Kennedy was killed, President Johnson
decided not to run, and Martin Luther King was murdered and for what that's worth.
And then he wrote his dissertation in '72 and really talked about progesterone and hormones
and such.
And he's here, as I said, on the third Monday at 1030 central time, a little bit late.
But Dr. Ray Peat, good morning to you, sir.
How are you?
Good morning.
Very well.
Yeah?
Yeah.
You're an orange juice guy.
How do you drink orange juice every day?
Yeah.
I start out with either coffee con leche or orange juice.
So you start off with what?
Coffee and milk.
Mm-hmm.
And then orange juice.
Over the years, we were told by our moms and school people that it's not too good to drink
orange juice because it has too much sugar in it.
Remember that?
Oh, yeah.
During the night, we use up almost all of our stored glucose, stored glycogen.
And that's why almost everyone has very high cortisol in the morning, the stress hormone.
And that's because it begins turning our good tissues, everything from the bones to the
skin, starts breaking down as dawn approaches because we're using up our stored sugar and
we need sugar to keep the brain alive and the blood cells.
And so the stress hormones come up near dawn and start breaking down our tissues to feed
the brain.
Is that similar to having the lowest blood sugar in the morning or just this is more
glucose taking more sugar in?
In the biggest group of people, low blood sugar happens around 3 to 4 or 5 a.m.
And that starts the intense surge in all of the stress hormones, not just cortisol, but
rising serotonin, histamine, parathyroid hormone, everything related to stress and breakdown
of tissues.
People starting around menopause start losing almost all of their daily bone loss, starts
in the early morning hours.
And when they start eating sugar and get the blood sugar back up to lower the stress hormones,
then the rest of the day, they don't lose a significant amount of bone or other tissue.
The bone loss is just an easily measured sign that your body is being torn down.
It happens to your skin and everything that isn't protected by hormones like testosterone
and progesterone.
So let's talk about that.
So the progesterone and hormone, which you're really one of the experts at, have been in
a long time.
By the way, if you'd like to be on the air with Dr. Ray Peat, Patrick@OneRadioNetwork.com.
We're just audio this morning.
We'll get this video thing.
We almost got it going, working, and we'll try it again tomorrow after doing a little
tech stuff.
Patrick@OneRadioNetwork.com, 888-663-6386.
So let's go back.
So three o'clock or so, the body starts running down on glucose, the hormones, and the cortisol
levels.
And that's really the beginning of losing bone and also where the skin will look a little
ruffled maybe in the morning or wrinkles and stuff like that?
Yeah, it's actually a little bit weaker and thinner, but water replaces the lost tissue.
So you don't always notice that it looks thinner and tending to wrinkle.
But yeah, the skin does look worse in aging people after the age of about 45 or so.
In the morning?
In the morning.
So could we eat something before bed, right before bed, that would help with this issue?
Yeah.
Sort of like an athlete socks up on carbohydrates for a day or even in the couple of hours before
a marathon or whatever.
You want to get your muscles, liver, and brain well supplied with glucose, glycogen, and
so carbohydrate as your late afternoon or early evening meal is very important.
And right at bedtime, a big surge of calcium such as a glass of milk helps to hold down
the parathyroid hormone which specializes in bone destruction, mobilizes the calcium,
and coming out of the bone, the calcium then activates the breakdown of your blood vessels
and skin and tends to calcify blood vessels.
So the calcium coming out of your bone doesn't just innocently get into the urine, but on
the way there, it is exciting, helping to break down and age all of your tissues.
So what if somebody wanted to get some good stuff right before bed, but they didn't like
milk or they were dairy or lactose intolerant or something, would there be a substitute?
Nothing is as good as milk because milk is very specialized for stimulating, optimizing
the absorption of calcium and magnesium.
Not only the lactose, but the various proteins in milk prepare the lining of the intestine
to very efficiently absorb the calcium and magnesium.
You can absorb it if you have orange juice and, for example, either the juice or the
cooked leaf of kale, for example, is very rich in calcium and magnesium.
So if you have a big serving of cooked kale and a glass of orange juice, that won't be
as good as milk or cheese, but next best thing.
Before bed.
Actually, actually have kale before bed.
Milk and cheese sounds like tastier than that, but you know, whatever works for you.
Is okay with goat or cow milk or camel or anything else works?
I think camel and sheep milk are kind of thick, high on energy and fat, but they would work,
but you would get fatter than low-fat cow milk.
One percent cow milk or reduced fat goat milk is probably the best source for most people
because if you're working all day on a farm, for example, it's fine to drink a gallon of
whole milk because you're spending so many calories, but even drinking two quarts a day
of whole milk, the average sedentary person is going to get fat.
Boy, milk though, as you know, milk has sure gotten a bad rap, especially more so in the
natural world over the last, what, 25 years, Dr. Peat?
And then the mainstream, people in the mainstream still drink some milk, but not too many people
in the natural world think, they've been told it's terrible, you can't exhort it, it was
only meant for cows and all kinds of stuff, right?
Yeah, and if you look at the culture, it's getting fatter and fatter, and milk happens
to be the best weight loss food there is because the high calcium assimilation from it increases
our metabolic rate, the combination of protein and calcium and magnesium is ideal for increasing
our ability to burn calories.
That's interesting, that is so interesting.
And that plays along with the whole idea that we were sold, Doc, when was it, I guess early
'90s, you know, that fat was bad, and that's when the whole low-fat thing really came on
board, right?
Yeah, the fat has to be adjusted to your activity level.
If you're burning 5,000 calories a day, you can handle the fat of something like whole
milk, but I found when I was in graduate school that drinking a gallon a day of 2% milk, I
was starting to get fat, so I changed to 1% and have stayed the same weight ever since.
But we've heard, though, that if you're gonna drink milk, it's best just to go with the
whole stuff, though, the whole, no, the whole thing?
The full fat, the full fat, I guess.
Yeah, the high fat content is for a high work, high energy expenditure, and if you aren't
spending 5,000 calories a day doing hard physical work, it's necessarily going to store as fat.
So what about, say if you wake up in the middle of the night, 2 o'clock or 3 o'clock, could
be a blood sugar thing, would orange juice work there as well?
Oh, very well.
Really?
I usually use a glass of milk with a spoonful of sugar in it, but orange juice is fine.
I've even used Coke when I was traveling and woke up at 3 a.m. and needed sugar, and Coke
worked all right.
Yeah, very interesting.
Dr. Ray Peat, Patrick Timpone, OneRadioNetwork.com.
So here we are, gosh, July 20.
I think the whole COVID thing, we're kind of tired of talking about it, but I'm sure
that you've looked at a lot of different things over the past three, four, five months.
We've talked to it in past shows.
Give me your, on July 20 here, with your opinion and all the research you do and the people
that you talk to, can you give us your best opinion about what's going on as far as a
virus, communicable, no virus, bioweapon, body makes the virus, whatever.
Do you have an opinion on it?
Is there any kind of real, let me finish it for a second, is there any kind of real science
that is provable, or is it all just conjecture, even from a credentialed fellow like yourself?
That's what I've been asking myself for, starting in February and March, I began writing down
and looking at the numbers published by the Centers for Disease Control, and comparing
them to previous years, and starting in the first week of January this year, the numbers
of weekly deaths consistently over the last many years, they've completed their national
compilation of deaths throughout the country within two weeks of reference week, and so
starting in the third week, I was writing down the finished numbers for the first week
of the year, and then comparing those numbers to the previous week in 2019, and after I'd
done this for two or three months, I noticed that someone on the internet had been doing
the same thing, only more thoroughly going back several decades.
What I was seeing was a sharp drop in the weekly mortality, referring to the previous
year, a sudden drop of 10-15% from last fall, and I couldn't find any historical precedent,
and this person who has a website, I think his name is Joe Hoft, H-O-F-T, anyway, he
did it for previous decades and came up with the same results.
The mortality peak in last fall started at steep rise, exactly like every preceding year,
the winter pneumonia deaths, but then suddenly around January 1st, there was a crash in the
deaths all around the United States.
People were dying less often from all causes, and that went on through March.
There is this weird, it's like a volcano collapsing and making a crater, a historically unique
mortality curve, and then if you look back at 10-15% unhistorical lack of deaths, suddenly
in the first week of April, all of those missing deaths reappear in a gigantic, again, unhistorical
peak, which they called the COVID death peak.
And basically, there's no way that can happen, even if the bubonic plague started up, you
just can't get a historical collapse of total mortality all around the country that way.
I think the only way a criminal prosecutor could interpret it would be that someone was
fiddling the numbers with foreknowledge that they were going to want a lot of deaths to
report, so they trimmed impossibly the total mortality to have a big pile of deaths to
report in April.
Interesting.
So, you can actually see where there was something done to the numbers in, what was it, you're
saying in late fall and early winter?
No, the death curve was perfectly normal right through December.
And then it was just about the first week of January that if you plot their own numbers,
you see this, it looks like a volcanic crater forming.
A peak starts up and then collapses and then comes up super sharp on the other side.
To make it look like there was a big "pow!"
Yeah, except they haven't explained why those tens of thousands of people weren't dying
in the run-up, almost three months.
Wow.
So.
They didn't give out any explanation or show that anything real was happening, that they
were just talking about this week 15 people died with a diagnosis and so on.
You see the same thing happening now in Texas and Florida.
They say a month ago there were only 10 or 15 people per day dying.
Today 25 people died.
Everyone should panic, we're all going to die.
But when you look at the daily mortality in the state with 30 million, every day hundreds
of people, 700 or 800 people are dying of all causes.
And what they're saying is today twice as many people died with a diagnosis of COVID
as did on a given day the previous month.
But if you look at the number of daily tests given and look at the curve of COVID-diagnosed
deaths, the rise in the daily tests given exactly corresponds to the rise in the daily
diagnosed COVID deaths, and you can't really diagnose for sure that someone has the virus
unless you do the test.
And if the number of diagnosed people rises exactly as the number of tests administered
rises, then you have no evidence that anything at all is happening.
Does the PCR or DNA test give with any amount of accuracy that someone has a unique virulent
potentially deadly communicable virus in their body?
Well any virus is likely to be communicable and if you're in a very particular weakened
state just about any virus can be deadly.
Any old cold virus or just the most trivial sort of virus can push a very sick person
over the edge.
But the PCR test will find, even if you have just sitting on your mucus harmlessly, you
could have a rabies virus or whatever, one of them sitting on a piece of spare mucus,
the PCR test would find it and say you had rabies, but that virus might never have reached
your living tissue.
So when we're seeing antibodies, it doesn't mean that someone has a unique virus called
COVID in there.
Well the antibody, if their antibodies are truly specific for that particular antigen,
that's a very different thing from the PCR test.
The PCR test will amplify the most trivial amount of viral information, but to form antibodies
that are more or less specific to that virus means that your immune system was exposed
to it, but it doesn't mean you ever got sick from it.
So which one is the antibody test, the other than the PCR test?
Like the PCR test, we have two, right?
The PCR test and the DNA test?
The PCR test is for either RNA or DNA.
And then what's the other test they're using?
The antibody test is to see if you have been exposed to it and formed antibodies in your
blood.
Is that considered a positive test that they're reporting?
Well it means that you've been exposed to it, but you might have had sniffles from it
and not even noticed that you had anything and you can still form antibodies.
Like when you eat a new food, you're likely to form antibodies.
Your immune system is testing foods that you've eaten and checking them and preparing antibodies
so that you will be tolerant to that food.
It prepares to block any irritation from that food if your immune system is good.
So the antibodies means you're safe from that particular antigen.
It's a barrier against any further action by that particular thing.
Do you know which test are giving most often, the PCR or the antibodies?
No, for a time the CDC was listing the numbers all mixed together.
So for weeks their numbers were totally meaningless because they were blending everything together
and saying that these are the numbers of people with COVID, but absolutely different tests
mixed together don't mean anything.
So when governors and mayors and people are closing cities and masking orders and all
that using people testing positive, which are called new cases, can you conjecture of
what percent accurate that is?
Well it's accurate in the sense that they have a positive result, but it doesn't mean
that people were at all sick or if they were sick, it doesn't mean that if they died, it
might have been a stroke or heart attack or trauma from falling out a window or something.
But if they had the presence of the virus, they were put down as a COVID death.
Two or three months ago, Deborah Birx, who used to appear in all the press conferences
with Fauci and Trump, she said the government is listing everyone positive for a COVID test
as a COVID death.
She expressed what I was just saying that she no longer appears in the press conferences
every day, starting right after making that sort of incriminating statement that there's
no rational basis for what they're saying.
We posted an article, I'll just read you the first paragraph to get your opinion, with
Dr. Ray Peat, if you'd like to be on the show, Patrick@OneRadioNetwork.com, a high-profile
European pathologist is reporting that he and his colleagues across Europe have found
no evidence of any deaths from a novel coronavirus on that continent.
Dr. Stolen-Alexoff contacted the World Health Organization and he was accusing them of creating
worldwide fear and chaos without providing objective, variable proof of a pandemic.
And then along with that, the Bulgarian Pathology Association, he's part of that, they believe
it's currently impossible to create a vaccine against the virus.
He also revealed that the European pathologists haven't identified anti-antibodies that are
specific for SARS-CoV-2.
Well, the Bulgarian is exactly right about the impossibility of making a vaccine.
They've tried to make vaccines for the coronavirus, which is the common cold main cause for decades.
They've found that the virus mutates within a few months to become resistant to any vaccination.
And there's, being an RNA virus, all of these coronaviruses mutate about a hundred times
faster than DNA virus and about a million times faster than mammalian DNA, very, very
fast constant mutation rate.
Constant mutation, wow.
He's right on the impossibility of a vaccine, but his comment about the specific antibody,
he's using a specificity of an antibody in a particular way that isn't correct for general
immunology.
You can have specificity as a composite of half a dozen different molecules that each
one is roughly specific for the virus.
So you don't have to have one absolutely specific antibody.
He's thinking about the monoclonal specific antibody, but you don't need that kind of
specificity to have a vaccine.
What about his statement on, has not found any evidence of any deaths?
That was a different group and I haven't read that paper, but I would agree that, how do
you prove that a death was caused by a virus?
In the case of hospital deaths, just recently news came out that the intensive care units
have since the first months of the so-called pandemic, mortality has dropped by 30%.
What has happened around the country, they've discovered that when they intubate someone,
the process of putting the tube in them and giving them powerful drugs to make them unconscious
and relax their reflex muscle contractions, those drugs combined with forced respiration
kill almost 100% of the people within a few weeks.
So they were killing 100% of their patients, practically 80 to 100% simply by the treatment
they were giving them.
That came to be realized now simply by reducing the number of intubations for which the government
was paying them $48,000 per patient tubed and killed.
Simply by reducing their greedy uptake of government money, they've cut intensive care
unit mortality by a third.
So how long did this go on and any possibility of knowing how many deaths were attributed
to this incorrect procedure?
When one doctor in Europe compared two nearby hospitals in Germany, he was working with
one of them and he explained why the tubing was killing patients because it was irrationally
disturbing their oxygen carbon dioxide balance.
So he just adjusting a nasal cannula, no drugs to relax them or stuffing tubes down their
trachea.
His hospital mortality went to zero while the adjoining hospital continued to have 100%
mortality and absolute all or none difference just by a conservative using standard nasal
cannula gas mixing recipes.
He wasn't even recognizing the importance of having the proper balance of carbon dioxide
but still he was not killing any of his patients.
Because when you just use the cannula, you're retaining the balance of carbon dioxide?
Letting the patient balance it himself.
And so before they were just pushing in pure oxygen?
Yeah, to different extents and that's been known now for generations that when you artificially
ventilate someone, you override their rate regulating system and if you slightly exceed
the oxygen dose, you drive out the carbon dioxide which is needed to deliver oxygen
to the tissues and even open capillaries.
You shrink the blood vessels in the brain for example and starve the brain for oxygen
because you're giving too much oxygen.
Yes, and different from using oxygen therapy but because this is putting it inside the
body through unnatural means with a tube.
And you can give too much.
For example, just the difference in altitude, if a person is having a regulatory problem
even at sea level, keep keeping their carbon dioxide up because they're forming lactic
acid.
There's a natural competition between lactic acid and carbon dioxide.
If a person tends towards stress or diabetes for example, their background lactic acid
will indicate the appearance that they're under chronic exercise or something.
There will be a residual lactic acid level and if you add carbon dioxide, that will suppress
glycolysis that makes the excess lactic acid.
So you can correct those signs of incipient diabetes and stress by adding some carbon
dioxide.
And if you rise in altitude and are healthy, your body under lower oxygen pressure is able
to regulate itself to maintain higher carbon dioxide than at sea level.
And so adapted people, they've known for at least 50 years, more like 70 years that they
call it the lactic acid paradox that when you're adapted to high altitude, you can work
full force and you make much less lactic acid than you would doing the same proportion of
work at sea level.
So the altitude stops your excess lactic acid production.
That's because of the retained carbon dioxide.
So the lactic acid can be a real issue with all kinds of things including the heart muscles,
right?
And myocardia.
And some of the doctors have, one of the earliest New York City doctors reported that they weren't
low in oxygen especially, but they were low in carbon dioxide.
And that lets the lactate rise and the lactic acid, even in the presence of normal amounts
of oxygen, the presence of lactic acid creates what they call pseudo hypoxia or reductive
stress which is similar to sepsis and all of the mortality associated features of COVID.
It's all basically a stress syndrome which is intensified by the treatment and the COVID
has a very small role in triggering that in people who actually have a very intense respiratory
infection.
So, in general, when we are exercising, we get stronger in lung capacity and such and
do not have to breathe as often while we're moving, whatever, treadmill or even walking.
We're retaining more carbon dioxide, right?
And then that puts more oxygen where we need it, in the cells, right?
Yeah, that's when you're called fit.
That's when you're fit.
Or well adapted.
Well adapted.
You're making lots of carbon dioxide because you're really using your oxygen.
And using the oxygen without over breathing, right?
A person who isn't fit produces lactic acid very easily, even with hardly any activity,
their lactic acid begins to rise.
Because they're over breathing, just breathing too much?
Yeah, if you, a perfectly healthy person, if they just sit still and pant for two or
three minutes, they'll have a surge of lactic acid.
Because the carbon dioxide that suppresses it is gone and they'll produce a poisonous
amount of lactic acid and that will cause edema.
You get cramps as an early sign of over breathing.
Your hands will drop and that's an indication of loss of carbon dioxide.
And along with that, your capillaries and arterioles start becoming edematous, swelling
up and losing the ability to transmit oxygen.
So you can potentially kill yourself by intense over breathing.
So that's why, that's one of the root causes of edema is just over breathing.
Yeah, and probably 20 or 30% of the population could, you could find good evidence of over
breathing relative to their needs and metabolism.
So the less breaths we take per minute, the better it is, right?
Not necessarily a person with a very high fitness, the most intense metabolism, they
need lots of fuel and oxygen.
They can sit still and productively burn three, maybe 4,000 calories just because their body
is running at high, perfect metabolism.
So they need both lots of calories and lots of oxygen.
So you have to look at the body temperature, heart rate, oxygen consumption, everything
to know what the respiration rate means.
So if we are exercising briskly and doing bursts and other things, rebounding and treadmills,
and we get our pulse rate pretty high, I mean, maybe two, maybe three times our normal resting
rate or more.
And if we can do that without breathing or over breathing and retaining carbon dioxide,
is that a sign of good health?
To get the heart rate up without having to breathe a lot?
I don't think it is necessarily.
You have to look at the whole thing.
How many calories are you able to burn?
How much oxygen can you dispose of in burning those calories?
And the most fit person is running at a high rate even at rest.
So they can't get fat even if they sit around.
Because they're burning calories because they're fit.
That's why they stay fitter, just by burning.
Here's an email for you.
We love Dr. Peat.
Thank you for having him on.
You're welcome.
Thanks to Dr. Peat.
What's Dr. Peat's pregnenolone dosage guidelines for someone in their 30s?
This is from watching on YouTube, the stream.
I was in my 40s, at 48, when I first tested it.
And the result was so absolute that I experimented with different amounts.
And I found that one dose of 300 milligrams would last me for 10 days.
And then my symptoms came back.
Or that would work out to 30 milligrams a day.
And I found many people, 10 or 20 milligram dose.
I had two or three experiences.
Two extremely depressed men, for example, they happened to be sipping a glass of wine
and being very gloomy and talking about giving up their profession.
I dropped 10 or 20 milligrams on their wine.
And when they had consumed that, their face got pink instead of gray.
They started grinning and making plans for improvements in their business.
Isn't that funny?
Just in 15 minutes, you could see a change from that very, very small amount.
So it acts as a catalyst and can get your own production going.
And for an experiment, I took 3,000 milligrams a day for a year and felt fine.
But it was very expensive and wasteful.
So then I found that I didn't need any because it had repaired my system.
And animal studies are similar.
They gave rats a stomachful, I think it was a 10-gram wad, which would be like about a
pound for a person to eat at once.
But it didn't have any hormonal effects at all unless they were under stress to begin
with.
And it normalized, prevented excess cortisol production.
So that's why some people recommend even for guys to have a little dab of this pregnenolone,
this natural stuff every day.
Yeah.
And lots of people have been reporting hormonal reactions from it.
That means it isn't good pregnenolone.
There should be absolutely no so-called hormonal effect.
It should simply normalize things, lowering your ACTH and cortisol if they're too high,
bringing them up if they're too low.
So you shouldn't feel anything.
You maybe just feel a little bit better or a little...
Yeah.
And it could be if you're feeling depressed or weak or something, if it's what you need,
and often it is when you're in your 40s, the effect happens in less than an hour and is
a day or a night sort of change.
And this generally from the good stuff, where it's from yams, Doc?
Wild yams?
No, it doesn't matter where it's made from as long as it's made by someone that knows
what they're doing.
But in the last 15 years or so, it has become popular and there are dozens of little chemical
companies popping up and there are no regulations.
It's not regulated as a drug or hormone or anything.
So you absolutely can't know without doing about a $3,000 analysis showing the absence
of any of the antagonistic hormones like estrogen.
Oh, they could be in the product itself?
As an impurity from manufacturing.
Oh, wow.
Do you have any clean companies you can recommend people?
No, but if you know that it's coming from one of the gigantic monopoly companies, they
have a history of extreme cleanliness because they're monitored constantly.
Oh, you're actually better going with the big boys in this case?
Yeah.
It's cleaner.
They are regulated and the little ones aren't.
Interesting.
Hi, Dr. Peat.
In the past, you've spoken favorably of the effects of a microdosing GHB.
In Canada, GHB is highly regulated and possible to acquire without a prescription and illegal
to make yourself.
However, it can be legally purchased and possessed.
Is a healthy young adult male in a health, is it safe to ingest microdoses of GBL?
GBL to get the same results.
Oh, GBL to get the same results.
What is the L?
I don't know.
Gamma butyric lactone?
Yeah, that's the paint thinner, I think.
It used to be sold for 25 cents a quart or something as a paint thinner and very non-toxic,
but a very powerful paint remover.
The FDA has this policy of knocking traditional safe drugs off the market and licensing even
things that have been used for hundreds of years, licensing them to a single artificial
monopoly so that company can raise it from a dime a dose to $100 a dose, which they've
done for treating narcolepsy with GHB.
That's what GHB is, narcolepsy?
It was used previously for relaxing people before surgery.
Isn't GHB the date rape drug thing?
It has been used that way, yeah.
It can kill a person in an overdose because it turns everything off.
And people are microdosing it, some people?
If you eat passion fruit, you get a small measurable amount in the tasty passion fruit.
How'd we do?
That's a good one.
Here's a question from Eric in Finland.
Can you give your insights into the Kelly Protocol surrounding its success and aspects
that both Kelly and Gonzales used that the Francis Pottinger introduced to medical science,
namely restoring health to a person by restoring proper autonomic nervous system balance by
the sympathetic and parasympathetic components that comprise the system?
Kelly got his idea from John Beard, who was a doctor at the beginning of the 20th century
who theorized that cancer is an embryonic process gone wrong and that the pancreatic
enzymes digest proteins and are present in the blood.
The same pancreatic enzymes used to digest food by excreting them into the intestine
are in the blood in the Beardian hypothesis and they digest these ovarian uterine reproductive
hormones, in his theory, were involved in cancer.
William Kelly, the dentist, adopted the idea when he was diagnosed with pancreatic cancer
that the Beardian hypothesis and a deficiency of pancreatic enzymes was involved in cancer.
So Kelly started taking pork pancreas, dehydrated pork pancreas, or beef either way.
The only drawback is that they have to be dehydrated but unsterilized.
So if there was any infection, bacterial or parasite or whatever, in the animal, you can't
sterilize it because you're eating the powdered pancreatic tissue.
But Kelly had very good results.
I was acquainted with him and followed his work and added to his nutritional program.
Someone convinced him to put the glutamates in his supplement and as soon as he made those
additions, magnesium glutamate and other mineral glutamates, he began having epilepsy attacks
every day starting that January.
He contacted me in spring or early summer of what could be causing his seizures every
day and I looked at the changes in his formula and explained that the glutamates are brain
toxic excitatory and he stopped eating his supplement and the seizures stopped the very
day he stopped his glutamate consumption.
With that success, from my suggestion, he decided to add pregnenolone to his total vitamin
supplement.
As his lawyer said, since it's not a hormone, you can put it in anything.
So it was just added to his vitamin mineral nutritional supplement.
And then his clients started having other health benefits, not just the enzyme effect
on whatever cancer they might have but general health benefits such as eye problems and muscle
problems and all of the things related to a steroid imbalance.
Very interesting.
So should we be wary of some glutamates we see in different supplements and foods?
Absolutely.
Some of the quantities are enough to seriously imbalance our amino acid intake.
And what formula do they usually come in with products?
What would we look for?
Just the word glutamate?
Yeah.
Monosodium glutamate.
Oh, monosodium, of course.
We're generally aware of that.
If you say calcium glutamate or magnesium glutamate, it's the same glutamic acid that
is in MSG.
Oh, same thing.
Wow.
Dr. Ray Peat is with us.
Patrick Timpone, OneRadioNetwork.com.
Your email for your newsletter is newsletterrayPeat.com, right?
No, Ray Peat's newsletter with an S on it.
Ray Peat's newsletter at gmail.com.
Jay, Ray Peat's newsletter at gmail.com.
Patrick Timpone, stay right there.
Doc, we're just going to take a quick little break here.
I didn't want to do a lot of breaks today just because I was feeling like talking after
our technological kind of adventure we had this first hour with the video.
But we'll do a couple.
Previously with the highly credentialed Dr. Thomas Levy, he argues because the literature
shows that oxidation is the cause of disease.
But the whole point is the location, the concentration, the duration, the distribution of oxidized
biomolecules determines 100% of all diseases.
And so that's why I say oxidative stress doesn't cause disease.
Oxidation is disease.
If there's no oxidized biomolecules, you don't have a toxin.
The toxic effect is oxidation of biomolecules.
That's the entirety of it.
And by the grace of God, several months ago, George Wiseman said this about hydrogen.
Hydrogen is the world's best antioxidant by a long shot.
First of all, it's 700 times smaller than something like CoQ10, 400 times smaller than
vitamin C, things like that.
So it can literally go, the hydrogen molecule can literally go through everything in your
body and go right into the very DNA and repair it.
So now it makes sense why George was able to say this back in August 2019 with such
conviction.
The body accepts that gas and uses it to heal everything.
It's like the fountain of youth.
It's astonishing the amount of ailments.
In fact, in scientific studies, and they have over a thousand scientific studies now, they
are showing that it either helps the body heal directly or indirectly from virtually
every ailment that ails any water-based life form.
Okay, I'm sold.
And I was able to get one a couple of months ago, thanks to your support.
It's called the Aquacure Hydrogen Machine.
Breathe the gas and bubble the water.
There's a promo code OneRadio for 10% discount.
I think a great investment for you, knowing what we know now, on oneradionetwork.com.
Previously with cardiologist Dr. Joel Kahn, 35 years experience in cardiology.
On your commercial break, you hit a hot button because I'm a giant fan of infrared sauna
and the cardiac benefits.
Tell us about why you like these saunas for the heart.
What does it do?
In Japan, it's a traditional therapy of heart disease to even sick heart patients to sit
for 15 or 20 minutes in an infrared sauna, then lie down and rest and hydrate for about
half an hour.
They call it WAON, W-A-O-N.
It means soothing heat.
And they've done research studies, like 30 of them, in humans.
Anti-ages your arteries and improves the strength of your heart, and it may actually prolong
survival in sick heart patients.
Anybody can just, again, go to the internet, read about infrared sauna heart disease, or
put my name there because I've written many articles about it.
Now there's data coming out of Sweden and Finland because they've published some amazing
data that the number of times a week you're in a sauna, the number of minutes each time,
you can just track out how long you're going to live.
So very powerful therapy by being in, my favorite is, an infrared sauna.
We have a really nice one that we've been playing around with.
Gosh, and I'm in there virtually, well, say five times a week now during the summer, take
a couple days off, and in the winter, every day.
And it's a great one.
It's portable.
And if you're watching on Ubi2bi right now, or just look on the sauna page on our website,
you have head sticks out there.
They're low EMFs there, just the electrical and magnetic stuff from the floor to the bottom
of the chair, and you get that just standing next to your juicer or your refrigerator or
driving in your car.
So it's definitely not an issue.
We do get questions about that.
And then, you're going to sweat and you'll have a very good experience.
This is technology out of Taiwan, so hopefully they don't go to war with China or in the
United States and we have a problem.
But it's a medical university.
They've won lots of awards with their technology.
So it's a great unit for the price.
We think it's the very, very best.
Somebody sent me a link to a sun lighter, and I don't want to speak badly about another
product, but they were like $5,000 and they're beautiful and you're a wooden thing and you
lay down there for five grand.
But I've used those wooden guys and I've never really been able to do the sweat thing as
much and I can't see how there would be any real advantage at all, except that they're
beautiful and you lay down in them, you know, do a movie star thing, which is cool.
But try ours.
Check it out.
It's a great website.
It's the Relax Far Infrared Sauna.
We have a special price, $1,150.
They don't allow us to put that in print, so $1,150 and we'll hook you up.
Just email me, patrick@oneradionetwork.com.
Send me an email.
That's the only way to get it.
Patrick@oneradionetwork.com.
We talk about your health, wealth, and well-being on oneradionetwork.com.
On the third Monday of the month at 1030, we talk with Dr. Ray Peat.
His website is rayPeat.com.
He has a newsletter that comes out a couple times every other month.
Every other month, right, Doc?
Every other month?
Yeah, six times a year.
Six times a year.
What's your next one coming?
I think it'll be on education and what's happening under the pandemic program, destruction
of conventional education to impose things more efficiently.
Ray Peat's newsletter, gmail.com, right?
So you're feeling something other than beneficial for the kids with this whole COVID, don't
go to school and all of that, and school online?
Yeah.
The details have been sketched out years in advance.
In May of 2019, Eric Schmidt, who was chairman of Google for a long time, went to work for
the Pentagon, head of, chairman of the Defense Committee on Artificial Intelligence.
And in that, he said that for the sake of getting ahead of China, we're going to have
to destroy the present economic system and move rapidly to automation using artificial
intelligence.
For example, in shopping, he said the online shopping is a great experience, especially
if you can't get it in the stores.
And that online computer remote medicine is going to be better than contact between patient
and doctor, and you won't spread a disease that way.
Digital money so you don't spread disease, digital education so you don't waste time
going to school and having actual interaction between student and teacher.
And incidentally, the best artificial intelligence programs are owned by Google and will monopolize
education and money will be poured into the systems of virtual reality to give even poor
kids the same fine curriculum that the rich kids get.
And the taxpayers will subsidize this monopoly system of uniform remote education.
Fascinating.
So this was Eric Schmidt and when?
And where did he say this?
May of 2019 and I think it was May of 2020 that he went to work with Governor Cuomo in
New York to start revising New York's education, public health and other systems in line with
his plan that was worked out in the Pentagon a year before the pandemic.
Oh my goodness.
And the May 29 Eric Schmidt comments, where were those Dr. Peat?
They're published on the internet.
It's called the, I think it's the National Defense Commission on Artificial Intelligence.
I think the initials are NDCAI.
Eric Schmidt.
And so he's the head guy at Google.
He was.
He went from there to the Pentagon to New York.
Interesting.
Wow.
Dr. Ray Peat, Patrick Timpone.
I always get a little surprise here.
You just never know.
Let me turn this thing off.
I had it on talking to the geek this morning.
Yeah, I don't want this.
I don't know how to turn it off.
Spam burger.
Here's an email.
This is from Jeremy.
Several months ago I began using EWOT, which is exercise with oxygen training.
Okay.
And I'm feeling really good and stronger, but I just want to know, are there any cautionary
things I should know about using oxygen when exercising that Dr. Peat thinks I should be
aware of?
If you're adding oxygen, your lungs are at risk.
An increase over the atmospheric 21% can basically inflame your lungs.
You do the same things starting to your lungs that the intubation over breathing does to
all of the tissues, starting with inflammation.
So but what if he does it without over breathing?
Is he still in good?
Is he okay?
Yeah, but I don't know of any value from adding a higher concentration of oxygen during
exercise.
Adding a little CO2 I would think would be more protective.
You're churning a lot of oxygen through your lungs when you're breathing very hard.
I think that tends in itself to create lung inflammation.
So that CO2 retention again is the key.
Please ask Dr. Peat, I'm a 21 year old guy.
This is from a Harish.
I have chronic chapped lips for about five years now.
I think they started after I applied iso-trethon, T-R-E-T-H-O-I-N on my face for a couple of
months.
I'm supplementing with thyroid, eating low PUFA diet for the past couple of years.
And I've also developed seborrheic dermatitis on sides of my nose in the past several months.
I've been taking B-complex supplements to see if the dermatitis, but it doesn't go away.
What could be going on?
Any ideas?
Either a deficiency or a great excess of vitamin A acts the same.
If you're deficient in all of the antioxidant things, all of the stabilizing factors of
which vitamin E is just one, if you're deficient in those, an overdose of vitamin A leads to
auto-oxidation.
The vitamin A starts catalyzing its own breakdown.
And the supplements of retinoic acid, there are three forms of it.
Two of them are extremely toxic.
The third one, it's a matter of having it in great excess.
All of those forms of retinoic acid normally are locally derived in very particular tissues.
For example, the developing embryo is the most noticeable place where you use retinoic
acid to create tissues such as the eye.
But if it's out of place, then it has a toxic effect and leads to the breakdown of the basic
safe form, retinol, which is the form that occurs mostly in foods.
The retinol begins to be destroyed when you've started catalyzing the breakdown.
So it's very hard to know whether to use any supplement at all.
I would suggest if you have those symptoms to rely only on foods such as milk and eggs
for your vitamin A rather than a supplement.
You could be getting too much.
Yeah, because the system, once it starts down that path, you need something to interrupt
it.
And vitamin E and progesterone are things that are known to help to interrupt the process.
So you might try a lotion of something containing either vitamin E or progesterone on the lips
directly to see if that can stop the chapping process, which means your proteins are not
being synthesized properly.
Cells are being formed and dying prematurely.
In his article, writes an email entitled "Regeneration and Degeneration," Mr. Peate mentioned that
50 years ago, inflammation was seen as a necessary part of the healing process, but now it's
recognized as causes for heart disease, diabetes, cancer, and the aging itself.
What could a person eat or supplement with to prevent this aggressive, excessive level
of inflammation from developing and stop the unhealthy fibrosis and disease that doctors
mislabel as aging?
The inability to use oxygen properly tends to go with a deficiency of carbon dioxide
and lactic acid formation.
If you even inject lactic acid, it will start this systemic inflammation.
So lactic acid is really the fundamental agent of all of these degenerative inflammatory
processes.
So you want to keep your lactic acid, if possible, below the so-called normal range on the blood
test.
If you have a blood test for it, it should be at the extreme bottom of the test range.
Interesting.
Because in proportion to the presence of lactic acid, you're moving in the direction of the
degenerative diabetes, cancer-like metabolisms.
Are there symptoms that can show us, or bodily symptoms and the like, that can be symptomatic,
if I can use your word again, of too much lactic acid?
Well, it's involved in everything that constitutes failure.
Stress fatigue is one of the traditional signs, but edema is probably the next after fatigue.
All of the nerve muscle digestive failures or inflammatory processes, all of these will
be brought on by lactic acid.
At an extreme surge of lactic acid, panic attacks are becoming much more common.
A very high percentage of people are starting to have a panic attack, which means they're
having a surge of lactic acid.
And again, that's not enough CO2, right?
Not enough over-breathing.
Yeah, and a lot of people find that having even half a teaspoon of baking soda in a couple
of ounces of water helps to break an anxiety or panic attack.
Does baking soda internally affect lactic acid to go down?
Yeah.
When you absorb the baking soda, the immediate effect increases your alkalinity, but the
kidneys just very quickly, it has a diuretic effect.
And so the sodium goes out very fast, leaving the bicarbonate, which by itself is turned
into carbon dioxide, which goes into cells and restores their normal, relaxed, slightly
acidic pH.
Just a little teaspoon of baking soda.
Anything on that order.
Half a teaspoon will sometimes make a difference.
Interesting.
It doesn't hurt to take a teaspoon.
What's the best way, writes an emailer, to determine how many calories are best for us
on our body?
Watching for weight gain.
That's it, right.
If someone isn't allergic to tomatoes and bell peppers, does that mean that it's okay
for us to eat them?
Yeah, very good food, tasty.
Does supplementing urea, here's another one, wow, we just mentioned that, does supplementing
urea take care of edema?
Supplementing urea.
It has been used that way up until the 1960s.
It was found to, for example, with heart failure that causes generalized edema, people were
kept on anywhere from 10 grams per day of urea to several doses of 10 grams dissolved
in fruit juice, grapefruit juice or orange juice, you don't notice the taste of it.
It has maintained people without progression of heart failure for many years.
It was used to treat brain swelling.
It was very safe and effective.
One kid with practical brain death, no functions after an accident, they gave him, I think
it was a 90 gram dose of intravenous urea over a period of a few hours in a proper solvent
and he recovered and went back to school.
Absolutely the right thing for treating brain swelling or other crucial edema, but some
doctors thought of it as an osmolite like sodium chloride and so they gave a certain
number of grams in distilled water, treating it as if it acted osmotically like salt and
they found that it broke red blood cells and killed the person by destroying their blood.
That was reported and the idea spread that you can't use urea, you have to use one of
the new sugar-based or starch-based things that will draw water out of the brain into
the blood, but they don't work the same way urea does and basically only work part of
the time.
But the whole failure that led to the disuse of urea therapeutically was based on a total
ignorance.
Urea is not an osmolite, it has to be added to an isotonic solvent.
You start with a solvent like physiological saline or ringers or whatever, something that
will not destroy your red blood cells and then you add the dose of urea, neglecting
completely its so-called osmotic potential and then the urea acts by entering cells.
It isn't an osmolite, it doesn't stay outside, it goes into the cell, modifies the cell's
water retaining functions, causes the cell to return to normal and excrete the water.
So it's not pulling the water out, it's pushing it out from the inside.
So a demon, these things are basically kidney issues.
The kidney eventually handles it, but it's an intracellular thing.
When you don't have enough carbon dioxide, your cell loses the ability to excrete water.
Lactic acid shifts the electrons in the direction that cause the cell substance to crave water.
Lactic acid makes the cell have more electrons, is more attractive to water and so it swells
up and the urea and/or the carbon dioxide change that electronic behavior of the cells,
countering lactic acid, making the cell resist water, push the water back out and return
to normal.
Boy, it sounds like the CO2 is pretty good stuff.
I mean, what are some of the main ways we retain more CO2?
Thyroid is our basic thing.
If you're low thyroid, you're basically always hyperventilating.
Really?
You would be doing it and not knowing it?
Yeah, because the cell isn't producing carbon dioxide at the normal rate.
And if it isn't producing carbon dioxide, you're not taking it in from the outside.
Then any little need for energy, the cell will burn some sugar, turn it into lactic
acid without burning it all the way to carbon dioxide.
Interesting.
Wow.
So a low thyroid could be doing all kinds of things that unless you talk to somebody
like you or really do your research, you wouldn't know, right?
You just wouldn't know it.
It's like, "I have edema, I have this and boy, I'm connecting the dots."
That's why we're very grateful to have you on, Dr. Peat.
Thanks for being here once a month.
Measuring your temperature is the next best thing to measuring your oxygen consumption
and CO2 output.
First thing in the morning, we want it around the 98.6.
Well, 97.8 is okay early in the morning, but then it should, after breakfast, get up to
temperature.
Get up to 98.
Do those little things you kind of use on your forehead, are they pretty accurate or
do you need to stick it in your mouth kind of mercury?
The mercury in the mouth is very, very absolutely accurate.
The infrared in the ear of the instrument is well designed.
That's very quick and handy to use and accurate enough.
Yeah, I had one of those infrared in the ear things I played with, but they'd always come
up these different numbers, you know, so I got really leery of using it.
Yeah, some of the instruments are kind of flaky.
Not very good.
I may ask Dr. Peat to clarify the difference between using T4 or T3 or both products for
thyroid health.
Does Dr. Peat recommend the Mexican brands of Sino Plus and Sino Mel?
Are there any USA ways to buy these?
You can find drugstores on the internet that sell them and check the price.
More people buy it, the more likely you are to find rip-off prices.
They should be in the vicinity of $15 a bottle.
So those two that you mentioned, those are just T3s, right?
No, one is a good balance of T4 and T3 that imitates the old 40-year-ago standard of armor
thyroid or Thyralar, which was the armor company's synthetic and that exact formula was taken
up by Sino Plus and I've been, since the armor company, sold to a cosmetic company and then
has gone through ownership changes and price increase from a penny a pill to a dollar a
pill.
I, in the 90s, started using Sino Plus and Sino Mel.
So Sino Plus is 4 and 3 and 4 and Sino Mel is...
It's pure T3.
Okay.
So Sino Plus would be, you want to get both if you're going to do it?
Most people do okay with Sino Plus and it's quick acting compared to the glandular, so
it's best to break the tablet into two or three doses per day because you can feel the
action starting right in your mouth if you chew it up, where the glandular pill has to
be digested, takes two or three hours to get digested and broken down and produce the active
hormones.
That's the Sino Plus, right?
The Sino Plus.
Sino Plus, yeah, is the quick acting combination product.
And again, the difference between the Sino Mel?
Sino Mel is only the active hormone and its activity peaks in an hour and a half roughly
after you take the pill and then it starts down and it's half gone within about 12 hours.
So if you try to take one T3 pill in the morning like the druggist will often tell you, by
12 hours later...
It's gone.
...at that time, you're hypothyroid.
So the Sino Plus, they'll stick around longer, those T3 and T4?
Yeah.
The body.
In the late 1940s when they were starting to synthesize T4 companies that became the
major producer of synthroid synthetic thyroxine, they tested their synthetic on 25-year-old
male medical students, the healthiest population imaginable, and compared the glandular armor
product with their synthetic and they said it worked exactly the same as the natural
thyroid.
So that was the basis now for 70 years, substituting for the natural which had established all
of our knowledge about thyroid hormone function.
It was done on the basis of natural thyroid.
The fact that it lowers cholesterol, for example, immediately, there's no cholesterol excess
problem if you don't have a thyroid problem.
But since that idea that 25-year-old males respond to the synthetic the same way they
do the natural, they failed to take into account the experiments that had already shown that
estrogen blocks the ability to convert thyroxine into the active hormone.
And so they didn't test their product on even 25-year-old females, much less 38-year-old
women at the peak of their estrogen, in a very high proportion of middle-aged women,
if it accumulates, can even have an antithyroid action by suppressing your pituitary, showing
zero TSH and so no stimulation of the thyroid gland and so no formation of T3.
At the University of Oregon Medical School in the 1970s, a doctor had prescribed 100
micrograms, which was a moderate dose of thyroxine to a hypothyroid woman.
And after a few months, she didn't improve, so he increased the dose to 200.
Over months, got it up to 400 micrograms of thyroxine per day, and she went into a myxedema
coma and was taken into the medical school hospital, where they found she had absolutely
no detectable T3 in her body, explaining the coma.
Her brain simply wasn't making carbon dioxide or energy.
So they gave her intravenous T3 immediately, came out of the coma, recovered from the massive
edema, myxedema, and they put her on a mixed product containing T3 to maintain her, and
there was no problem.
But there are milder cases like that, millions of them around the country, women being prescribed
thyroxine and the response being measured in terms of how much their TSH is being suppressed,
it totally ignoring their body temperature, their symptoms, their cholesterol, all of
the basic absolute indicators of what the thyroid is doing and how much is needed.
Interesting.
If you, what would be, is there such a thing as like the perfect cholesterol number?
I mean the big number that everybody talks about, you know, 180, 200, or do you have
a fave number that you kind of like to see?
Oh, it depends on your age.
The Framingham study found that basically no one who had their cholesterol well over
200, very low incidence of dementia if they kept their cholesterol up over the age of
150, but those who were below 200 had an extremely high dementia incidence.
That's explained because your gonads and adrenals depend on the amount of cholesterol in the
blood for making the protective steroid hormones.
In an experiment with an isolated ovary, for example, they measured the amount, keeping
the thyroid hormone level, they measured the amount of progesterone coming out of the vein
from the ovary and they varied the amount of cholesterol going into the artery to the
ovary, and as they increased the cholesterol in the blood going in, the amount of progesterone
coming out of the ovary corresponded and increased.
So rising cholesterol is adaptive, keeping your brain steroid hormones up, keeping your
ovarian systemic hormones up, your adrenal hormones, everything, your brain especially
depends on the adequate amount of cholesterol in the blood, and if your thyroid is low,
that means you require more cholesterol in the blood to keep your brain supplied with
steroids.
And so hypothyroid people properly and adaptively have a proportionally high cholesterol.
Oh, because they needed to keep it in balance.
So that would be the argument for all the people, the dangers of statins and them getting
this cholesterol down in guys for like 120 and 130 cholesterol.
Yeah, that's biologically crazy.
That's making it impossible to make the brain steroids.
My goodness.
Could you ask Dr. Peat, to improve myocardial respiration, are there certain times of the
day that would be better than others for doing such things as bag breathing and red light
exposure?
Oh, exercise is always safest in the afternoon.
Afternoon.
I know of someone did a study of having people jog before breakfast and then after breakfast
and took a blood sample and found broken chromosomes in their blood cells.
If they jogged before breakfast when blood sugar was not adequate, after breakfast there
were no broken chromosomes caused by the stress of running or the increased lactic acid.
And other experiments show that later in the day your ability to resist stress damage is
at its highest of the day.
Oh, interesting.
More three, four, five o'clock, that kind of time?
Interesting.
Kira wants to know what you think about eating raw meat, given that it is a good source specifically,
is it better or worse digested and what could be benefits from having it raw?
Oh, it's slightly better nutritionally, very easy to digest and you don't risk the carcinogens
produced by overheating it.
But the thing that keeps me from eating it either rare or raw is the possibility of various
kinds of infections, bacterial or protozoal or whatever.
That's why I think some of the raw meat people, they sear it everywhere pretty good to kill
anything on the outside, but it could still be on the inside though, right?
Yeah, if the animal has a disease.
If it has a disease.
You're being exposed to it and a healthy digestive system can handle it, but I prefer to cook
it rather than trust my digestive system.
What does Dr. Peat think about the Texas Dr. Bartlett who is successfully using BUDESINDE
steroid inhaler for COVID?
Malik is using cortisol injections for seven days with a bunch of supplements like C and
Zinc and the British are now successful with interferon beta.
Have you seen this Dr. Bartlett's videos about using this?
I haven't seen his videos, but anyway you take in an anti-inflammatory substance since
the essence of the COVID symptoms and mortality, the essence is inflammation.
All kinds of anti-inflammatory things are going to be helpful.
Hydroxychloroquine, azithromycin, the combination studies of those two, they're ridiculed by
the know-nothing doctors because they say neither of them kills viruses.
One is an antibiotic and the other is for autoimmune conditions.
Those are anti-inflammatory.
Azithromycin and erythromycin happen to be very effective anti-inflammatory agents.
And so they're missing the point that they are extremely therapeutic.
Anything anti-inflammatory is helpful.
Carbon dioxide is our simplest, most basic anti-inflammatory.
Carbon, good, I'll see you on Tuesday.
Aspirin, progesterone, cortisol, a thousand different safer things.
The synthetic glucocorticoids used for asthma inhalants will immediately protect you against
the inflammation, but they have the long-range problems of tissue breakdown.
Do you think there's any connection, I mean, let me put on my tinfoil hat with this whole
demonization of CO2 and the good stuff about it?
I mean, is that possible?
Is what possible?
The demonization of CO2 in our culture with man-made global warming and all that.
Yeah, but at least the pandemic, the founding chairman of the World Economic Forum announced
the theme of their January 2021 World Conference will be the Great Reset.
And he said the global warming thing was helping us to eliminate the old fossil fuel economy,
but that has been coming along very slowly.
And luckily, we now have the pandemic allowing for almost instant change, shutting down the
old economy by fiat rather than gradual legislation.
Interesting.
Yeah, we've been hearing a lot about that potential reset.
Here is a fellow from, I don't know where really, it sounds like Africa, does methylene
blue taking orally, is that dangerous?
People take unnecessarily big doses of it.
There have been reports of it interacting with the SSRI antidepressants and such, but
it's effective in doses of one-tenth of a milligram on the order of T3 thyroid form.
He says that he's taken, Dr. Jean-Philippe says he's taken a 1% solution and I take one
milligram of that.
Oh, that's good.
I think that's a safe dose.
Oh, so one milligram of 1%, that's pretty small.
Yeah, one milligram of the actual substance people have used for treating depression and
get almost immediate results the way they would with a similar dose of T3 because it
activates your mitochondrial respiration in very similar ways to thyroid hormone.
Here's an email from RJ.
My doctor prescribed using four liters of oxygen per minute to sleep with using an oxygen
concentrator.
I also use supplemental hydrogen gas called Brown's gas.
Is that okay or do I need to change?
I don't think concentrated oxygen is safe.
You just don't like it.
Don't they put most people in nursing homes?
Very often they do things that accelerate death while keeping them quiet.
Oh, good.
So again for Robert, for RJ, what is his concerns using even four liters a minute which isn't
very much while sleeping?
I think any excess is a risk starting with the lungs.
If you improve your metabolism, historically probably the most widely used successful chemical
treatment is using acetazolamide which makes your body retain the carbon dioxide that a
hypothyroid person isn't making enough of and that keeps stimulating your breathing
apparatus during the night and prevents sleep apnea.
So metabolically keeping your CO2 up with progesterone and/or thyroid and all of the
nutritional things work the same as acetazolamide in inhibiting the enzyme that eliminates carbon
dioxide.
This is from Cecil.
We have a few more and then we'll let you go back to work.
It seems to me as Dr. Peters mentioned that as long as the body has all the nutrients
it needs and is spiritually well, it should pretty well be immune to most diseases.
Am I wrong?
Does Dr. Peat believe a real potent bioweapon is possible out there with COVID?
Yeah, healthy people simply don't notice when they are exposed to the various viruses,
the viruses to take and act on people who are already sick.
Even after menopause, it isn't officially a sickness but it represents the effect of
40 years of a bad diet, too much PUFA in the diet.
Adds up, modifies the estrogen-progesterone balance and the excitatory processes in the
brain shift you away from progesterone production.
At menopause, the women who have had practically, there is almost a zero mortality from COVID
in women who are healthy and cycling and not using any estrogen supplements such as birth
control but starting at menopause and increasing in old age, women catch up with men in susceptibility
to COVID infection and mortality because their estrogen goes down, I mean their progesterone
goes down and the estrogen comes up.
Good morning you two.
I have come in late but I heard you talking about lactic acid.
We have these symptoms of too much.
Is only baking soda the go-to?
A lot of people find that that can help to break an anxiety attack and helps with their
endurance by tending to keep their production of, for example, athletes take as much as
a tablespoon before an endurance bicycling or run and it keeps being absorbed from their
stomach and intestine for part of the race that tends to keep their lactic acid production
suppressed.
Cindy is in Arkansas or Alabama, Rogersville, Alabama and she gets fever blusters and they
do not get fluid filled but they have been a nonstop for over about four months.
Any ideas what could be going on?
The immune system is being disturbed, pituitary, excitatory and stress hormones tend to excite
the nerves allowing the virus to reproduce so checking things like the amount of sugar
and carbohydrate in your diet, make sure you are not eating too much fat in proportion
to your carbohydrate which can increase your lactic acid and turn on the stress hormones.
Too many carbs can?
No, too few carbs.
Too few carbs.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, when you are under stress, you liberate free fatty acids and if you eat a lot of fat,
that increases your free fatty acids and turns off your ability to use glucose oxidatively
and that increases your lactic acid and the lactic acid keeps the stress hormones going
and maintains the inflammation that lets the virus replicate.
So when you say carbs, Dr. Peat, do vegetables count or do we want to also do some complex
carbs like corn or rice or whatever?
If you handle them and they are well cooked but things like well cooked summer squash,
for example, is a very easy to digest kind of starch.
Very well cooked rice is okay.
Tortillas, hominy are probably the easiest to digest starch because they have been processed
by lime that makes them very easy to digest.
There is a fellow that has a great natural pig company, Doc, and he has a booth in Dripping
Springs Farmers Market and has a new product with different colored tortillas and he says,
let me tell you about these tortillas.
They have been nixtamized.
So this guy is going, isn't that cool?
Going through the whole thing.
Yeah.
Yeah, they are more nutritious, much safer.
Easier to digest, right?
You have told us.
Yeah.
Naomi wants to know, could CHITOSANE help detox PUFAs since it kind of binds to fat?
Any fibrous food helps to carry stuff out of you.
Raw carrots and well cooked mushrooms are a pleasanter thing than CHITOSANE.
You don't need to buy a supplement.
You can just choose the most fibrous foods.
Oat bran is an additive to breakfast cereal.
It's a pleasant way to get a lot of fiber.
So that will take some things out like PUFAs if there's too many of those hanging around.
Yeah, and for a weight loss diet, it helps to simply keep some of the fat from being
absorbed and carries it out of you.
Lynn wants to know what you think about intermittent fasting, say eating only from noon to 6 p.m.
as many people are recommending.
The studies have been done on very specialized populations of mice or highly trained athletes,
for example.
And I don't think it applies to people on an average activity schedule.
So you don't think just overall it's beneficial just to do that once a day?
For anyone with a borderline metabolic problem, which applies to about half of the population,
it can increase the stress to go extra hours without food.
Kane wants to know, help us understand why high dose PUFAs like fish oil seem to help
so many thrive for decades from athletes to brain injury.
Fish oil has helped and is helping many perform at high levels.
How can you explain that because you're so against them?
By the time it gets absorbed into your bloodstream, it's becoming highly oxidized.
If you leave it out at room temperature, it gets sticky.
It starts to form varnish.
And at body temperature, 98 degrees in your blood with oxygen pumped into the blood, the
oxidative breakdown is extremely fast.
These oxidative fragments are powerfully immunosuppressive.
They knock out the enzymes that form prostaglandins, for example.
They knock out the inflammatory process very helpfully in the short term.
But meanwhile, over a period of six months, you start damaging the functional long-range
effect of your immune system and run the risk of immune deficiency syndrome.
My goodness.
Here's May Thien.
She says, "I have a 14-month-old granddaughter who has eczema.
It seems sometimes she scratches herself so much it's hard to see and prevent her from
scratching.
What can I do to help?
We're just at a loss here."
My goodness, 14-month-old.
Checking the diet thoroughly for potentially irritating, poorly digested foods would be
the first thing.
Then if you don't find particular foods like bread or pasta would be first things to consider.
Then you might consider a blood test for vitamin D deficiency or too much phosphate in the
diet, an excess of meat, for example, or for milk and cheese.
Those things can activate the inflammatory system.
Dr. Peat, do you think it's worth the expense or the effort to get raw cheeses as opposed
to just old pasteurized cheese?
No, I think the really important thing is if you have a reaction to the cheese, a lot
of people have started having bad reactions digestively or allergically.
Look at the labels.
If they don't say just milk, salt, natural cultures, traditional cheeses might say natural
cultures, but just milk, salt, and rennet are the basic safe ingredients.
If it says vegetable rennet, that can mean an engineered enzyme system, a manufactured
bunch of fungal enzymes, for example.
Two-thirds of the commercial cheeses are now using those so-called cultures and enzymes
bought from a manufacturing company rather than acquired in the barn or the cave where
they age the cheese.
So what are the ingredients that we want to look for in cheeses?
Milk, salt, and rennet.
Just rennet.
That's it.
More than that, just find another one?
It's questionable.
Final question for Dr. Ray Peat.
Great stuff today.
Thank you, sir.
The U.S. government wants high-tech immunity passports potentially for everyone as soon
as possible.
What does Dr. Peat think the chances of this coming?
I think you can get the necessary context for that partly in Eric Schmidt's last year's
speech, partly in the Rockefeller Foundation's 2010 publication on the planning basically
for the coming pandemic and reset of the economy.
They called it "getting people in lockstep," and they used China as the example of how
people could be forced to shift to absolute lockstep conformity.
Yes, sir.
Many people are arguing that this whole social distancing and masking, sheltering at home
is kind of a training ground for that.
Right.
It's obedience training.
When you put on the mask, you're telling the public that you are an obedient servant doing
an irrational thing.
There have been 17 well-known studies of the effectiveness of wearing a mask.
Three of them weren't proper controlled studies.
The good 14 studies that were done with controls, the best quality science, found no effect,
no benefit from wearing a mask.
So if you're wearing a mask, you're an obedient but not fully rational citizen.
Wow.
And we've seen that even science shows that these 95 or whatever they call them, Doc,
that the P95s or something, that they don't do anything more than the cloth as well.
There's now evidence that the coronaviruses are aerosol, that they are particles smaller
than a bacterium and aerosolized bacterium even can, to some extent, they can go right
through ordinary masks, but the aerosolized virus almost encounters no resistance even
in the best masks.
In the best masks, no resistance, just goes poof, right through.
Wow.
Well, it's a brave new world, Doc.
If you'd like to get Dr. Ray Peat's newsletter, it's rayPeats, that's plural, newsletter,
at gmail.com, and if you're thinking about school and concerned about your kids, he has
a whole thing coming up on schools and education that I'm sure will be interesting to read.
Boy, it looks like it's going to be, boy, the folks are rebellion out there.
They want their kids to school.
It's a real clash, isn't it, from the school, I don't know why the school, people that control
the schools are so intent on keeping the schools closed.
They want to keep in good with the government.
The government can turn off their money supply or apply pressure to them, so they're being
obedient.
But isn't President Trump, he's been talking, he doesn't want to close them, he says they
should open.
Other parts of the government, right?
Yeah, he isn't really in control, as you can see with the hydroxychloroquine issue.
The FDA just rescinded their emergency permission to use it, and they say it causes dangerous
heart rhythm problems and liver failure and kidney damage and all kinds of things.
In 80 years of use, it was never found to cause those.
Now suddenly, and less than a month after a very good study of 2,500 patients in the
Henry Ford Health System, that found a 50% reduction in mortality in the people who used
hydroxychloroquine.
Now the FDA says it's too dangerous and absolutely ineffective.
The FDA Public Health Service has something in mind other than public health.
And we'll leave it at that.
Dr. Peat, thanks so much.
Great show today.
We appreciate it.
You take care of yourself, and I'm going to go out and get some oranges.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
Thanks.
Dr. Ray Peat, Patrick Timpone on Radionetwork.com.
What a blessing to have him.
And the president, I guess he was taking hydroxychloroquine for a while.
Well here you are.
We're going to try again to do the video thing.
We're going to get it tomorrow.
We have, well, Brandon Smith doesn't have a video camera, so that'll be, we'll see if
I'm going to be on there.
Just so we can get it all straightened out today.
And then also Tim O'Shea, who I think he has a, I saw a story about Tim O'Shea.
Dr. O'Shea says he's going to give somebody a whole bunch of money if they can show me
a coronavirus, show me the virus.
I think he's offering a reward.
Best lest I hurt.
So it should be a good show.
We're going to have some fun.
Brandon Amelani, it's been a long time.
He's a really cool guy.
Chinese medicine fellow.
We'll talk a lot about herbs and immune systems and exercise and cool stuff.
And then also, who else is coming on Wednesday?
I should certainly know that.
Oh, Richard Mayberry.
He's on the last Wednesday of the month.
Pretty fun.
So, I will see you all tomorrow.
Thanks for your ongoing support.
Again, we apologize for some of the strange things that went on this first hour.
Or early this morning at nine o'clock, we were trying, we had the thing all working
and I tested it yesterday and something didn't work and there's something going on that's
not compatible with our studio and didn't know that you couldn't hear the audio.
I didn't test the audio.
And so when we made it right on the video today with Dr. Massey, you couldn't hear the
guest talking on the audio.
So we'll have to figure that one out before we do it again.
All right.
I love you all very much.
Thanks a lot.
Take care of yourself.
Let me know if I can help with anything.
Patrick at OneRadioNetwork.com.
Take care.
And may the blessings be.
[Music]